README.md, before:

# Barbot

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sidlauskaslukas/barbot/master/resources/barbot.jpg" alt="Barbot">

Barbot is an open source Arduino cocktail mixing robot controlled with the hybrid mobile app via Bluetooth. You can check how it works [here](https://youtu.be/1JVnOlu0Daw).

## Getting started

### Requirements
* Node.js
* Npm (Node comes with npm)
* Android SDK tools [ [installing Cordova requirements](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/platforms/android/#installing-the-requirements) ] or Xcode depending on which platform you want to use
* Arduino IDE

### Client
* Clone this repository
* From the client directory, run `npm install`
* Install Cordova globally `npm install -g cordova`
* Install Ionic CLI globally `npm install -g ionic`
* Run `ionic serve` in a terminal from the `client` directory
* At this point, Ionic CLI should open the app in your browser

### Barbot
* Clone this repository
* Start the Arduino IDE and open the `Barbot.ino`
* In Arduino IDE, select your board from the `Tools -> Board` menu (right now we're not supporting other boards than Arduino Mega)
* Select the serial port to which Arduino is connected from the `Tools -> Serial Port` menu
* Click the Verify button to see that the code is ok
* Click the Upload button
* If all goes well, that's it

## Required parts
* NEMA 17 stepper motor
* Pololu A4988 stepper driver
* Hitec HS-7955TG servo motor
* Pololu Micro Maestro 6-Channel servo controller
* Bluetooth module HC-05
* GT2 6mm wide timing belt
* GT2 timing pulley 20 teeth 5mm bore
* Timing belt bearing
* 2 x Chrome plated round rail 1200mm x 12mm
* 4 x SK12 12mm bore linear rail shaft support
* 4 x SC12UU aluminium pillow block housing
* 9 x 40ml Beaumont Metrix SL spirit measure
* 3 x Wall 3 bottle rack
* Endstop microswitch
* Arduino Mega 2560
* Cable carrier
* DC-DC converter (12V to 5V)
* AC power supply 12V (6.67A)

### List of 3D parts used in this project
* [NEMA 17 mount](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5391)
* [Adjustable belt holder](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:745934)
* [Idler pulley mount](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1225670)

## Wiring diagram
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sidlauskaslukas/barbot/master/drawings/wiring_diagram.jpg" alt="Wiring diagram">

## Communication
The mobile app and the Barbot communicates over the Serial port using the Bluetooth module HC-05. All messages needs to be ended with a \n to be run.

### Available commands

#### X: Move X axis

**Usage**  
`Xnnn`

**Parameters**  
Xnnn - The position to move to on the X axis

**Example**  
```
X-4995 ; Move to -4995 position on the X axis
```

#### H: Home X axis
**Usage**  
`H`

**Parameters**  
*This command can be used without any parameters*

**Example**  
```
H ; Home the X axis
```

#### F: Pour
**Usage**  
`Fnnn Hnnn Wnnn`

**Parameters**  
Fnnn - Times to pour  
Hnnn - Time duration (in ms) to hold dispenser in open position  
Wnnn - Time duration (in ms) to wait till next pour  

**Example**
```
F2 H2500 W3000 ; Pour two times, hold dispenser open for 2500ms and wait for 3000ms between each pour
```

## Additional information
* Dispensers used in this project won't work with liqueur and other thick drinks. You might also have problems with sugary drinks as they stick inner dispenser parts together if you leave the liquid inside the dispenser for hours
* You can use Coca-Cola and other carbonated drinks with these dispensers, but don't forget to make a hole at the bottom of the bottle before mounting the dispenser to the bottle in order to let air get out, otherwise you will have a big fountain. Use empty bottles and fill them later through the holes after mounting the dispensers
* Wash dispensers very well after every use, otherwise the inner dispenser parts will stick together. I would also recommend you to wash them before every use

## Credits and special thanks
* [Visma Lietuva Techies Club](https://www.visma.lt) for support and supplying all needed parts
* [Edmundas Rakauskas](https://github.com/Edmu) for contributing to the project

Commit message:

Finished communication & available commands sections in the README.md

README.md, after:

# Barbot

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sidlauskaslukas/barbot/master/resources/barbot.jpg" alt="Barbot">

Barbot is an open source Arduino cocktail mixing robot controlled with the hybrid mobile app via Bluetooth. You can check how it works [here](https://youtu.be/1JVnOlu0Daw).

## Getting started

### Requirements
* Node.js
* Npm (Node comes with npm)
* Android SDK tools [ [installing Cordova requirements](https://cordova.apache.org/docs/en/latest/guide/platforms/android/#installing-the-requirements) ] or Xcode depending on which platform you want to use
* Arduino IDE

### Client
* Clone this repository
* From the client directory, run `npm install`
* Install Cordova globally `npm install -g cordova`
* Install Ionic CLI globally `npm install -g ionic`
* Run `ionic serve` in a terminal from the `client` directory
* At this point, Ionic CLI should open the app in your browser

### Barbot
* Clone this repository
* Start the Arduino IDE and open the `Barbot.ino`
* In Arduino IDE, select your board from the `Tools -> Board` menu (right now we're not supporting other boards than Arduino Mega)
* Select the serial port to which Arduino is connected from the `Tools -> Serial Port` menu
* Click the Verify button to see that the code is ok
* Click the Upload button
* If all goes well, that's it

## Required parts
* NEMA 17 stepper motor
* Pololu A4988 stepper driver
* Hitec HS-7955TG servo motor
* Pololu Micro Maestro 6-Channel servo controller
* Bluetooth module HC-05
* GT2 6mm wide timing belt
* GT2 timing pulley 20 teeth 5mm bore
* Timing belt bearing
* 2 x Chrome plated round rail 1200mm x 12mm
* 4 x SK12 12mm bore linear rail shaft support
* 4 x SC12UU aluminium pillow block housing
* 9 x 40ml Beaumont Metrix SL spirit measure
* 3 x Wall 3 bottle rack
* Endstop microswitch
* Arduino Mega 2560
* Cable carrier
* DC-DC converter (12V to 5V)
* AC power supply 12V (6.67A)

### List of 3D parts used in this project
* [NEMA 17 mount](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:5391)
* [Adjustable belt holder](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:745934)
* [Idler pulley mount](https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1225670)

## Wiring diagram
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sidlauskaslukas/barbot/master/drawings/wiring_diagram.jpg" alt="Wiring diagram">

## Communication
The mobile app and the Barbot communicates over the Serial port using the Bluetooth module HC-05 (with a few small changes, you can use other methods for communication like USB or WiFi too). See all available communication commands below in the "Available commands" section.

## Available commands

Multiple commands can be sent in a single message by separating them with a comma ",". All the commands will be executed one after another in the order in which they're written. The messages must be ended with a newline "\n" character to be run.

**Example**
```
X-4995,F2 H2500 W3000,X-1990,F6 H2300 W2300,H
```

### X: Move X axis

**Usage**  
`Xnnn`

**Parameters**  
Xnnn - The position to move to on the X axis

**Example**  
```
X-4995 ; Move to -4995 position on the X axis
```

### H: Home X axis
**Usage**  
`H`

**Parameters**  
*This command can be used without any parameters*

**Example**  
```
H ; Home the X axis
```

### F: Pour
**Usage**  
`Fnnn Hnnn Wnnn`

**Parameters**  
Fnnn - Times to pour  
Hnnn - Time duration (in ms) to hold dispenser in open position  
Wnnn - Time duration (in ms) to wait till next pour  

**Example**
```
F2 H2500 W3000 ; Pour two times, hold dispenser open for 2500ms and wait for 3000ms between each pour
```

## Additional information
* Dispensers used in this project won't work with liqueur and other thick drinks. You might also have problems with sugary drinks as they stick inner dispenser parts together if you leave the liquid inside the dispenser for hours
* You can use Coca-Cola and other carbonated drinks with these dispensers, but don't forget to make a hole at the bottom of the bottle before mounting the dispenser to the bottle in order to let air get out, otherwise you will have a big fountain. Use empty bottles and fill them later through the holes after mounting the dispensers
* Wash dispensers very well after every use, otherwise the inner dispenser parts will stick together. I would also recommend you to wash them before every use

## Credits and special thanks
* [Visma Lietuva Techies Club](https://www.visma.lt) for support and supplying all needed parts
* [Edmundas Rakauskas](https://github.com/Edmu) for contributing to the project
